By segmenting, you categorize your customers into smaller groups of people that have something
in common and that makes thinking of offers and calls to action easier.

Being relevant and responding adequately to their actions is the basis of 
personalized marketing. It starts with acknowledging the differences in your customer’s’ 
behavior and working with them, not in spite of them.

Here are some customer segments that you can use:

High spenders

Every online shop should have some customers that spend a lot more than the average. 
They can either shop very often or they make large orders. Either way, they’re valuable 
for you because they make you far better profit than others who cost the same to acquire.

Cart abandoners

The tough bunch. You probably use special tools to fight – send a “Come back” email and that’s it.
 Well, not quite. While it’s true many carts get abandoned because the shopper got interrupted, other
  people leave because they decided they didn’t want the product or saw an extra shipping fee.

Coupon lovers

If you use coupons, there are probably customers who only buy with a coupon and never pay full price.
 While this is kind of annoying, you can turn it into an advantage and stimulate more orders from 
 these people – the coupon lovers.

Thrifty shoppers

Shopping habits matter a lot if you want to do effective marketing and not annoy your customers.

Some people like the big spenders buy a lot in one sitting, while others prefer coming often, 
but buying only as much as they need at the moment – one bag of dog food, just a pair of leggings 
or a bottle of shampoo.

One-timers

Fear not, every customer had only 1 order once. Segmenting by the number of orders=1 
is quick and easy.

Newsletter readers/ ebook subscribers

If you invest time and money in content and email marketing, you’d want to know who
 actually reads it, right? It can help you come up with ideas to include or products to promote.

Registered browsers (leads)

Most stores generate leads with pop-ups, newsletter subscriptions, coupon giveaways and wishlists.
 If you also have registered users who haven’t made a purchase yet, you’re leaving money on the table.

By location

On a personal note, I get frustrated when I get a promo email with fashion winter essentials,
 for example, that include a silk strapless dress and sandals. I live in a 4-season country and it 
 really bugs me that someone thinks I can wear those things in winter here. You bet I don’t buy it.

The indecisive buyers

I bet you have a few customers who browse your site a lot but buy rarely.
 They might be chatting with live assistance or abandoning carts all the time.
  They find it hard to make a decision and you’re losing their orders.

Loyals

One customer segment is the dream of every seller. These people bring you a nice, 
steady revenue flow. They obviously trust your store and probably even recommend it to 
others because it’s their go-to place for this type of products.

Also, they know your products, prices, and promotions better than the others
 because they visit your site often and engage with your brand.

they’re your customers already and our goal is to keep them close without
 making them feel uncomfortable.

Instead, we’re using what they reveal about themselves and their 
shopping habits to serve them in the best way possible.

By studying them and adapting to their preferences so your marketing 
efforts don’t feel intrusive, but welcome and timely.